Some 5m resident non-Germans are EU citizens who already enjoy nearly all the rights of natives, so may not see the need to add another nationality.
大约 500 万非德国居民是欧盟公民，他们已经享有当地人的几乎所有权利，因此可能认为没有必要增加另一个国籍。

Of the remaining 8m foreigners, including around 1m Ukrainian refugees, it is unclear how many will rush for a German passport.
在剩下的 800 万外国人中，其中包括约 100 万乌克兰难民，目前尚不清楚有多少人会急于申请德国护照。

Some estimates suggest that 2m or more Germans could be added to electoral rolls in the next few years.
一些估计表明，未来几年可能会有 200 万或更多的德国人加入选民名单。

The far-right Alternative for Germany party attacked the new law as a “coup d'état through a forced restructuring of voter demography”.
极右翼的德国另类选择党攻击新法律是“通过强制重组选民人口结构而发动的政变”

New citizens will have to promise to uphold democratic freedoms and accept Germany's “special historical responsibility” for Nazism and the need to protect Jewish life.
新公民必须承诺维护民主自由，接受德国对纳粹主义的“特殊历史责任”以及保护犹太人生命的需要。

Dual citizenship is now generally allowed.
现在普遍允许双重国籍。

Children who are born in Germany with at least one parent who has lived in Germany for five years will automatically become citizens.
在德国出生且父母中至少一位在德国居住五年的儿童将自动成为公民。

In special cases the wait can now be as short as three.
It shortens the residency requirement for most applicants from eight to five years.
它将大多数申请人的居住要求从八年缩短到五年。

The new law should help tackle the backlog.
新法律应该有助于解决积压问题。

Among the hundreds of thousands of Turkish Gastarbeiter (guest workers) who arrived in the 1960s and 1970s, many assumed they would return to Turkey, so did not apply to become German.
在 20 世纪 60 年代和 1970 年代抵达的数十万土耳其客工中，许多人认为自己会返回土耳其，因此没有申请成为德国人。

Yet nearly half of Germany's 3m people of Turkish background—easily the largest immigrant group—remain non-citizens.
然而，德国 300 万土耳其裔人口（无疑是最大的移民群体）中近一半仍然是非公民

On average, Turkish immigrants who acquire German citizenship have already been in the country for 24 years.
平均而言，获得德国公民身份的土耳其移民已在德国居住 24 年。

But the backlog still grew, because of a range of obstacles: restrictions on dual nationality, long residency requirements, tough tests to prove language skills and gainful employment, and a clogged bureaucracy.
但由于一系列障碍，积压的案件仍在增加：双重国籍的限制、长期居住要求、证明语言技能和有酬就业的严格测试以及堵塞的官僚机构。

The number Germany naturalised rose from 130,000 in 2021 to 168,000 in 2022, the highest in two decades.
德国入籍人数从2021年的13万人增加到2022年的16.8万人，创二十年来最高水平

Sweden did far better at 10%.
Germany's “naturalisation rate”—the percentage of resident foreigners granted nationality every year—was just 1.2% in 2021, well behind the European average of 2.2%.
2021 年，德国的“入籍率”（每年获得国籍的外国人居民的百分比）仅为 1.2%，远低于欧洲平均水平 2.2%。

Any Chinese action that hurts Apple in China would hurt China, too.
中国任何伤害苹果在中国市场的行为也会伤害中国。

Apple says 3m people work in its supply chain.
苹果称其供应链有 300 万人工作。

Many of those workers are Chinese.
其中许多工人是中国人

One analyst likens Apple's position vis-à-vis China's government to “mutually assured destruction”.
一位分析师将苹果公司相对于中国政府的立场比作“必将毁灭”。

The same could be said of the commercial balance between America and China.
美国和中国之间的商业平衡也是如此

Try explaining that to Mr Trump.
尝试向特朗普先生解释这一点。

Events short of a Chinese invasion of Taiwan could also hurt the company.
中国入侵台湾以外的事件也可能损害该公司。

The return of Donald Trump to the White House, a serious possibility now that he has all but wrapped up the Republican nomination, would almost certainly raise barriers to trade and heighten Sino-American tensions.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)重返白宫的可能性很大，因为他几乎已经完成了共和党的提名，几乎肯定会增加贸易壁垒并加剧中美紧张关系

Even if Joe Biden defeats Mr Trump in the presidential election in November, he is hardly a China dove .
即使乔·拜登在11月的总统选举中击败特朗普，他也很难算是一个中国鸽派

The Chinese government is beginning to hit back against American sanctions.
中国政府开始反击美国的制裁。

It has already banned products made by Micron, a chipmaker from Idaho, from some infrastructure projects.
它已经禁止爱达荷州芯片制造商美光公司生产的产品参与一些基础设施项目。

In September reports surfaced of a ban on Apple products among government officials.
九月，有报道称政府官员禁止使用苹果产品

Although the authorities later denied the claims, the episode put investors on edge.
尽管当局后来否认了这一说法，但这一事件仍让投资者感到紧张。

Apple is also exposed to China risk through its supply chain.
苹果还通过其供应链面临中国风险

Despite much-publicised efforts to move some production to India, around 90% of iPhones are still manufactured in Chinese factories.
尽管大肆宣传将部分生产转移到印度的努力，但约 90% 的 iPhone 仍是在中国工厂生产。

So are most Mac computers and iPads.
大多数 Mac 电脑和 iPad 也是如此

Mr Sacconaghi of Bernstein says that Apple will be hugely exposed to a serious geopolitical escalation, such as a conflict over Taiwan, for at least the next five years.
伯恩斯坦公司的萨科纳吉表示，至少在未来五年内，苹果公司将面临地缘政治严重升级的巨大风险，例如台湾冲突。

China, however, represents a bigger threat—and not just because of a revitalised Huawei.
然而，中国代表着更大的威胁——不仅仅是因为华为的复兴。

Apple's plans for future growth depend in large part on success in emerging markets, including the biggest one of all.
苹果公司未来的增长计划在很大程度上取决于新兴市场的成功，包括最大的市场。

Mr Cook kicked off Apple's past three earnings calls by talking about the company's sales outside the rich world.
库克先生在苹果过去三场财报电话会议上首先谈到了该公司在富裕国家以外的销售情况

China was doubtless on his mind.

When it comes to AI , worries about Apple's progress may be overstated.
谈到人工智能，对苹果进展的担忧可能有些言过其实了

Erik Woodring of Morgan Stanley, an investment bank, points to signs that the company is indeed investing quite a bit.
投资银行摩根士丹利的埃里克·伍德林指出，有迹象表明该公司确实进行了大量投资

In October the firm's boffins and researchers at Columbia University jointly released an open-source AI model called Ferret.
10 月，该公司的研究人员和哥伦比亚大学的研究人员联合发布了一个名为 Ferret 的开源人工智能模型

Two months later Apple published a paper about how such models could run on smartphones, which are much less powerful than the data centres typically used for the purpose.
两个月后，苹果发表了一篇关于如何在智能手机上运行此类模型的论文，而智能手机的功能远不如通常用于此目的的数据中心。

In January a South Korean tech blogger reported that an update to Apple's operating system possibly as early as June would include AI enhancements for Siri, its robot assistant.
1 月份，一位韩国科技博主报道称，苹果操作系统最早可能在 6 月份进行更新，其中包括机器人助手 Siri 的人工智能增强功能。

Rumours swirl that Apple is planning to use generative AI in its own search engine.
有传言称苹果计划在自己的搜索引擎中使用生成式人工智能。

Apple is also being given a run for its money in China, the source of 17% of its overall revenues.
苹果在中国也面临着竞争，中国占其总收入的 17%。

According to Jefferies, an investment bank, Apple's share of smartphones in the country declined last year.
据投资银行 Jefferies 称，去年苹果在该国智能手机市场的份额有所下降。

Meanwhile that of Huawei, a domestic tech champion, grew by around six percentage points.
与此同时，国内科技巨头华为的增长率增长了约六个百分点。

In August Huawei stunned industry-watchers—and America's government, which has for years barred sales of American technology to the firm on national-security grounds—by launching the first 5 G device containing advanced chips that were Chinese-made rather than imported.
8月，华为推出了首款包含中国制造而非进口先进芯片的5G设备，震惊了行业观察人士和美国政府，美国政府多年来以国家安全为由禁止向该公司出售美国技术。

Patriotic shoppers in China snapped up the phone and, for good measure, other Huawei devices.
中国的爱国购物者抢购了这款手机，甚至还抢购了其他华为设备。

Some rivals are trying to eat into Apple's market share in high-end devices by exploiting consumers' appetite for Chat GPT -like “generative” artificial intelligence ( AI ).
一些竞争对手正试图利用消费者对 chat gpt之类的“生成”人工智能 ( ai )的兴趣，蚕食苹果在高端设备的市场份额

Samsung, a South Korean tech titan, said that it would launch a new range of AI -powered phones by the end of January.
韩国科技巨头三星表示，将于一月底推出一系列新的人工智能手机。

Flashy features will include real-time voice translation and turbocharged photo- and video-editing.
华丽的功能将包括实时语音翻译和增强的照片和视频编辑。

The devices may be on sale eight months before Apple's next iPhones.
这些设备可能比苹果下一代 iPhone 早八个月上市

Apple, by contrast, has said little about its plans for the hottest thing in tech since, well, the iPhone.
相比之下，苹果公司却很少透露其针对 iPhone 以来最热门科技产品的计划。

“We're investing quite a bit,” Mr Cook noted cryptically on the company's most recent earnings call.
“我们正在投入大量资金，”库克在公司最近的财报电话会议上神秘地指出。

The company is more vulnerable to the second area of concern—its slowing core business.
该公司更容易受到第二个令人担忧的领域的影响——核心业务放缓

According to a poll of analysts, Apple sold about 220m iPhones last year, barely more than the 217m it shifted in 2017. In 2024 the number might not be much higher.
根据分析师的调查，苹果去年售出了约 2.2 亿部 iPhone，仅比 2017 年的 2.17 亿部多一点。到 2024 年，这个数字可能不会高出多少。

For a while, Apple could offset the slowing volumes with higher prices.
在一段时间内，苹果可以通过更高的价格来抵消销量放缓的影响。

But annual revenue growth has slipped to 2% in the past two years, down from an average of 10% between 2012 and 2021.
但过去两年，年收入增长率已下滑至 2%，低于 2012 年至 2021 年期间的平均 10%。

The orb is in your court
Apple is not defenceless in the legal battles.
苹果在法律诉讼中并非毫无防备。

It quickly found a workaround to the Epic-induced changes to its App Store policy that lets it keep collecting hefty fees.
它很快就找到了解决方案，以应对 Epic 引起的应用商店政策变化，使其能够继续收取高额费用。

A final ruling in the D o J ’s case against Google is probably years away.
司法部针对谷歌一案的最终裁决可能还需要数年时间。

The same is true of its expected case against Apple.
预计针对苹果的案件也是如此。

As with many antitrust cases against big tech, investors seem unfazed.
与许多针对大型科技公司的反垄断案件一样，投资者似乎并不担心。

In America, the D o J is reportedly looking into whether Apple's smartwatch works better with the iPhone than with other smartphones and why its messaging service is unavailable on rival devices.
据报道，美国司法部正在调查苹果智能手表与 iPhone 的配合是否比其他智能手机更好，以及为何其消息服务在竞争对手的设备上不可用

If, in a separate case against Google, the courts agree with the D o J that its default-search deals with device-makers are anticompetitive, Apple could be deprived of roughly $20bn a year in virtually free money.
如果在针对谷歌的另一起案件中，法院同意司法部的观点，即谷歌与设备制造商的默认搜索交易具有反竞争性，那么苹果可能会被剥夺每年大约 200 亿美元的免费资金。

As a result of a lawsuit filed in 2021 by Epic Games, a video-game developer, Apple has already had to change the way the App Store charges developers to sell apps there.
由于视频游戏开发商 Epic Games 在 2021 年提起诉讼，苹果已经不得不改变 App Store 向开发者在其中销售应用程序收费的方式。

Apple's bigger legal problems have to do with its services business.
苹果更大的法律问题与其服务业务有关

In March new rules will come into effect in the EU , a huge market, that force Apple to allow apps to be installed on its devices without going through its App Store.
3月份，新规则将在欧盟这个巨大的市场生效，迫使苹果公司允许在其设备上安装应用程序而无需通过其应用商店。

That makes it harder for it to charge the 30% fee it levies on most in-app purchases (Apple has filed a lawsuit against the rules).
这使得它更难收取对大多数应用内购买征收的 30% 的费用（苹果已针对该规则提起诉讼）。

One set of risks that could undo Apple's p/e progress has to do with its legal headaches.
一系列可能阻碍苹果市盈率进步的风险与其令人头疼的法律问题有关。

Some, such as the patent problem, look like minor threats.
有些威胁，例如专利问题，看起来像是次要威胁。

In October the International Trade Commission, a federal agency, ruled that Apple infringed patents related to an oxygen-measuring sensor that were owned by Masimo, a medical-device maker.
10 月，联邦机构国际贸易委员会裁定苹果侵犯了医疗设备制造商 Masimo 拥有的氧气测量传感器相关专利。

Apple stopped selling the models which contained the offending technology.
苹果公司停止销售含有违规技术的型号

But on January 18th it started to sell them again, after disabling the disputed sensor.
但 1 月 18 日，在禁用有争议的传感器后，该公司又开始销售这些产品。

This helped convince investors that Apple was no longer a stodgy hardware provider.
这有助于让投资者相信苹果不再是一家古板的硬件提供商。

It was a software platform, where new paying users could be added at little extra cost.
它是一个软件平台，只需很少的额外成本就可以添加新的付费用户。

That meant higher profits—the gross-profit margin for Apple's services arm is 71%, compared with 37% for devices—and more recurring revenue.
这意味着更高的利润——苹果服务部门的毛利率为 71%，而设备部门的毛利率为 37%——以及更多的经常性收入。

As services became a bigger part of the business, Apple's overall profitability swelled, too, from 38% in 2018 to 44% last year.
随着服务成为业务的重要组成部分，苹果的整体盈利能力也从 2018 年的 38% 飙升至去年的 44%

That was also aided by the fact it was selling more high-end, high-margin iPhone models.
该公司正在销售更多高端、高利润的 iPhone 机型，这也有助于这一点

All of this helped lift Apple's p/e ratio to around 30, comfortably above the S & P 500 average and higher than that of Alphabet (Google's parent company), though still below Microsoft's (38) and Amazon's (72).
所有这些都有助于将苹果的市盈率提升至 30 左右，明显高于标准普尔500指数的平均水平，并高于 Alphabet（谷歌的母公司），但仍低于微软（38）和亚马逊（72）。

This started to change around 2019, notes Toni Sacconaghi of Bernstein, a broker.
伯恩斯坦经纪人托尼·萨科纳吉 (Toni Sacconaghi) 指出，这种情况在 2019 年左右开始发生变化。

Revenue from Apple's “services” business, which provides software to its devices' 1bn or so users, began to grow.
苹果公司的“服务”业务（向其设备的约 10 亿用户提供软件）的收入开始增长。

The two biggest parts of this category are an advertising business, which Bernstein puts at $24bn a year (including around $20bn a year from Google for making the search engine the default option on Apple's devices), and the App Store (another $24bn).
这一类别中最大的两个部分是广告业务，伯恩斯坦预计广告业务每年价值 240 亿美元（其中谷歌每年提供约 200 亿美元，用于使搜索引擎成为苹果设备上的默认选项）和 App Store（另外 240 亿美元） ）

Services also include Apple Music and Apple TV , its streaming offerings, as well as a fast-growing payments business.
服务还包括 Apple Music 和 Apple tv、其流媒体产品以及快速增长的支付业务。

All told, revenues from services amount to $85bn a year, or a fifth of total sales.
总而言之，服务收入每年达 850 亿美元，占总销售额的五分之一。

In 2016 they contributed just $24bn, or a tenth of overall revenues (see chart 2).
2016 年，它们仅贡献了 240 亿美元，占总收入的十分之一（见图 2）。

Though Apple's market value has been among the world's top ten since 2010, until a few years ago it traded at a low valuation relative to profits.
尽管苹果公司的市值自2010年以来一直位居全球前十，但直到几年前，其相对于利润的估值仍处于较低水平

It was thought of as a maker of hardware, a business that is more difficult to scale than software.
它被认为是一家硬件制造商，这是一项比软件更难扩展的业务

For much of the 2010s its price-to-earnings (p/e) ratio, which captures investors' expectations of future profits, was below 20, comparable to that of HPE or Lenovo, boring computer-makers with low growth and tight margins.
在2010年代的大部分时间里，其反映投资者对未来利润预期的市盈率(p/e)都低于20，与hpe或联想的水平相当，这两家公司的低增长和低利润率令计算机制造商感到厌烦

It was also below the average for big American companies in the S & P 500 index (see chart 1).
它也低于标准普尔500 指数中美国大公司的平均水平（见图 1）。

Nevertheless, Apple's boss would be unwise to dismiss the new year's niggles.
尽管如此，苹果公司的老板忽视新年的小问题是不明智的

For they point to larger challenges for the company.
因为他们指出了公司面临的更大挑战。

These fall into three broad categories: antitrust and legal issues;slowing iPhone sales;and growing geopolitical tensions.
这些问题分为三大类：反垄断和法律问题；iPhone 销售放缓；以及日益紧张的地缘政治局势

None of these is existential right now.
目前这些都不是存在的。

But each carries with it a risk of causing a big upset.
但每一个都存在引起巨大不安的风险。

Could they cost Apple its position as the world's most valuable company for longer than a week or so?
它们是否会使苹果公司作为全球最有价值公司的地位持续超过一周左右的时间？

Mr Cook can brush off some of these worries.
库克先生可以消除其中一些担忧

Despite everything, Apple's share price has not moved meaningfully in January.
尽管如此，苹果公司的股价在一月份并没有发生有意义的变化。

A few days after being overtaken by Microsoft, it reclaimed its heavyweight stockmarket title—and its $3trn valuation.
被微软超越几天后，它重新夺回了其重量级股票市场头衔，并获得了 3 万美元的估值。

And if the Vision Pro's launch is a flop, the short-term effect on Apple's revenues will be nugatory, given the headset's limited initial production.
如果 Vision Pro 的推出失败，那么对苹果收入的短期影响将是微乎其微的，因为这款耳机的初始产量有限。

The run of bad news may continue on February 1st, when Apple reports its latest quarterly earnings.
2 月 1 日苹果将公布最新季度财报，坏消息可能还会继续

Equity researchers estimate that its revenues barely grew in the last quarter of 2023, if at all.
股票研究人员估计，其收入在 2023 年最后一个季度几乎没有增长（如果有的话）

Then, on February 2nd, Apple will be tested once again.
然后，2月2日，苹果将再次接受测试。

It will start shipping the Vision Pro, an augmented-reality ( AR ) headset that it has been working on—and talking up—for a few years.
该公司将开始发售 Vision Pro，这是一款增强现实 ( ar ) 耳机，该公司多年来一直致力于开发并宣传这款产品

The high-end gadget, which will sell for $3,499, represents a big bet on a new technology “platform” that, Apple may be hoping, could one day replace the smartphone as the core of consumers' digital experience—and the iPhone as the source of its maker's riches.
这款售价 3,499 美元的高端产品代表着对新技术“平台”的一次豪赌，苹果希望有一天能够取代智能手机，成为消费者数字体验的核心，而 iPhone 其制造者的财富之源

Early indications hint that Apple should worry about the device's prospects.
早期迹象表明苹果应该担心该设备的前景

Netflix, Spotify and YouTube have announced that they will not make their popular streaming apps work on the headset
Netflix、Spotify 和 YouTube 宣布，他们不会让其流行的流媒体应用程序在耳机上运行

But it could be because they all compete with Apple's own streaming services, and developing an AR app is likely to be costly.
但这可能是因为它们都与苹果自己的流媒体服务竞争，而开发ar应用程序可能成本高昂

Cook , boss of Apple, is having a rough start to 2024. In the past month his company has faced an unusual barrage of unpleasantness.
苹果公司老板库克在 2024 年的开局并不顺利。在过去的一个月里，他的公司面临着一系列不寻常的不愉快事件

A patent dispute forced it to remove features from two of its smartwatches.
一场专利纠纷迫使该公司删除了两款智能手表的功能。

It found out that America's Department of Justice ( D o J ) would be suing it over antitrust transgressions.
它发现美国司法部（d o j）将因违反反垄断法而起诉它。

And it reported that it was losing market share in China, its second-biggest smartphone market.
据报道，该公司正在失去其第二大智能手机市场中国的市场份额。

Adding insult to injury, a few Wall Street analysts said something unthinkable until recently—that Apple's shares were overvalued.
雪上加霜的是，一些华尔街分析师说了一些直到最近才难以想象的事情——苹果的股价被高估了

On January 11th Microsoft, a rival tech titan, duly dethroned the iPhone-maker, temporarily, as the world's most valuable company.
1 月 11 日，竞争对手科技巨头微软正式取代了 iPhone 制造商，暂时取代了全球市值最高公司的宝座


